Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain an action, adventure,
and fantasy film called "Coma."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
An architect wakes up in his room, which appears
normal to him initially, but everything is
not what it seems.
As he begins to look around, he sees disintegrated
parts of the room.
But to his confusion, it regenerates as soon
as it comes into his view.
He becomes more bewildered when he gets outside,
where he comes across people who appear to
be missing parts of their bodies.
On the streets, the arrangement of the roads
and buildings are in disarray.
Some are upside down, while others are tilted
in different directions.
As the Architect goes further, he comes across
a decayed structure and begins imagining what
it used to look like.
As he stares at it, the building starts restoring
itself right before his eyes.
Suddenly, a monstrous black creature jumps
down from a building and starts running towards
him.
Before the beast could reach him, he is stunned
by a powerful blast.
With the monster gone, two men and a woman
rush over to him and carry him to safety.
They all start running as other creatures
continue to chase them.
The group manages to kill another monster,
but another soon corners them.
Seeing no other way to escape, the man they
call Pilot decides to activate an explosive
device and blows himself up next to the creature.
With the monsters no longer in pursuit, the
Architect starts asking questions about what
happened to him.
The woman, who calls herself Fly, reveals
that they are all in a coma.
She explains that all the structures around
them are memories of comatose people.
The people who are missing parts of their
bodies are also memories.
As she continues to explain their situation,
Fly notices a wound on the Architect's face
and heals it by hovering her hand over his
head.
They get inside a dilapidated bus that functions
as a wormhole that transports them directly
to their base.
As soon as the team gets out of the vehicle,
a woman named Spirit starts asking them about
Pilot.
Phantom, who leads the squad in their missions,
tells Spirit that Pilot sacrificed himself
to kill one of the monsters they refer to
as Reapers.
As the group argues over Pilot's loss, their
top leader, Yan, emerges and assures them
that the sacrifice was worth it.
As Fly shows the Architect around the base,
she explains how they keep themselves safe
from the Reapers.
The paths leading up to the building are always
blown up so the creatures wouldn't find them.
However, the routes always reappear because
someone would remember them.
Fly notes that their leader is searching for
an island that would keep them safe from the
Reapers, so they have to go out to look for
people who can help them get there.
The Architect comes across a room and sees
large holes with a view that seems out of
place.
Fly tells him that those are dreams that materialize
when they go to sleep.
As she shows the Architect his room, she reveals
that newcomers usually go through an initiation.
Yan, however, already decided to let the Architect
join without the initiation.
Fly says that Yan had been able to leave the
coma before, and he's the one who taught the
group to survive.
After the Architect goes to sleep, he starts
dreaming about the last moments before an
accident that seemed to have caused his coma.
He wakes up to find an overturned vehicle
in his room, along with a hole that gives
him a view of the building that he saw in
his dream.
As he approaches the hole, Phantom warns him
that he could get lost in there if he goes
inside.
He tries to make the Architect feel at ease
in his new surroundings.
However, Phantom senses that the Architect
and Fly seem to be getting too close to each
other, so he tells him to stay away from her.
Phantom is not in a romantic relationship
with Fly, but he thinks that he's getting
close.
The Architect tells Phantom to let Fly make
her own decisions, so the squad leader gets
angry and takes the newcomer outside.
In the yard, Phantom points out that some
people in coma develop extraordinary abilities,
which usually manifest when they're in grave
danger.
He orders a man named Gnome to shoot him with
a makeshift cannon to demonstrate his ability.
When Gnome fires, Phantom immediately catches
the projectile with his bare hand.
Gnome proceeds to shoot two rounds at the
Architect, hitting him each time.
Gnome then brings out a training machine that
the Phantom operates with remote control.
The robot hits the Architect several times,
making him fall to the ground.
As he tries to block the attacks from the
machine, faint glowing lines appear over him,
but they fade away quickly.
Phantom stops attacking him and assigns him
to a team led by a man named Cable.
The following day, Phantom prepares a team
to retrieve explosives from a submarine from
Cable's dream.
The Architect sulks in a corner because he
wasn't allowed to join the team.
Cable tells the Architect that they're lucky
they don't have to come with Phantom because
they're a lot safer staying behind.
As Cable advises the Architect, Yan interrupts
him and explains what he discovered about
their strange world.
He found out that time moves much slower in
a coma compared to the waking world.
Yan surmises that months could pass by in
their current state, but only one day had
elapsed in reality.
Yan claims that he had been there for fifteen
years and asserts that people can even survive
for thousands more.
He tells the Architect that he'll be able
to do what he wants in this strange world.
After speaking with Yan, The Architect approaches
the Phantom and tells him that he wants to
come with them.
On their way to the submarine, a man they
call the Astronomer starts telling the Architect
about his theory about dreams.
The Astronomer explains that dreams contain
their memories about their real lives even
though they don't remember their past.
He believes that they will be able to wake
up from the coma when they explore their dreams.
Spirit detects the Reapers in their vicinity,
but the Astronomer assures them that they
are out of the monsters' reach.
They explain to the Architect that Reapers
can sense humans through a particular signal
they emit.
Gnome points out that he created the "whistle"
so one of them can use it to lure the creatures
and blow themselves up.
The Astronomer tells the Architect that Reapers
are coma patients who are brain-dead and only
kept alive by life-support.
They soon arrive at the submarine port, which
is guarded by armed men from Cable's memories.
Spirit creates a diversion by using her ability
to conjure up an illusion.
They wait for the other guards to finish their
rounds, but Phantom gets impatient and throws
an explosive at them.
The explosion alerts the other guards, forcing
the squad to engage them in a firefight.
The team manages to take out all the guards,
but the Astronomer fears that the firefight
might have attracted the attention of the
Reapers.
The group starts retrieving the torpedo from
the submarine, with four of them holding the
chains to lift the armament while Cable detaches
it from the ship.
With minutes more to go, Spirit suddenly senses
Reapers within the vicinity.
Phantom orders the group to take care of the
Reapers and leave Gnome behind to hold down
the chains.
The chain, however, is too heavy for one person
to hold, so the Architect asks for help.
In his frustration, Phantom shoots the chain
and breaks it, causing Cable and the torpedo
to slip from the submarine.
Due to the distressful situation, the Architect
suddenly manifests his ability and saves Cable
by creating a ramp out of thin air, allowing
him and the armament to slide down safely.
The squad evades the Reapers and takes the
torpedo back to their base.
That night, Phantom asks the Architect whether
he can use his ability to build a wall that
would protect them in combat or even a bridge
that would allow them to go anywhere.
Yan contends that there's a better way they
can use the Architect's abilities.
He suggests that the Architect can build an
entirely new island for them instead of using
the sites that have been constructed from
their memories.
He argues that a new place built from scratch,
unattached from any memory, would be safe
from the Reapers.
The Architect agrees to build the place and
assures them that he can do it.
Yan announces that they'll be leaving their
base in the morning.
He then appoints the Astronomer as the new
squad leader due to Phantom's recklessness.
Furious from losing his position, Phantom
threatens to reveal Yan's secrets to the whole
group.
While everyone else sleeps, the Architect
tries to create something with his mind but
fails.
Fly sees him and realizes that he hasn't learned
to control his abilities yet, so she chastises
him for telling Yan that he can build the
island.
She points out that the Architect was able
to come up with a blueprint when he was concentrating
and moving his hand, so the Architect tries
again.
He starts thinking of a 3D layout until it
manifests and slowly turns into a model of
a spiral-shaped building.
Fly inspects the model and asks the Architect
if she could see his memories.
When they get to his room, she notices the
overturned car and surmises that the Architect
had been in an accident.
The Architect reveals that before he fell
into a coma, he was in the car to meet with
a potential client, but the meeting turned
out to be a trap.
He had previously wanted to wake up, but he
had since changed his mind, knowing that he
is free to do whatever he wants in the coma.
Fly says she only has a few memories of her
past, but she remembers that she can't be
with the person she loves.
She leans in to kiss the Architect, saying
that the coma has made it possible.
The following day, the residents prepare for
the journey to the new site.
While the others are busy, Phantom takes a
whistle from Gnome's bag and hides it in his
jacket.
As they go on their way to the new location,
Spirit detects the presence of Reapers.
The group splits up and tries to look for
a different route.
The Astronomer asks the Architect to go up
the hill and get back to them when he sees
an airplane.
When the Architect gets there, a Reaper slowly
approaches him from behind.
A man named Tank fights off the creature and
takes the Architect back to the group.
Phantom intercepts them and tries to plant
the whistle on the Architect.
The squad, however, figures out that the Phantom
planted the explosive.
When they confront him, they notice that his
body is disintegrating.
Finding himself in a desperate situation,
the Phantom tells the residents that Yan was
responsible for putting them all in the coma.
Yan shoots the Phantom, but he is still able
to run away despite the fatal shot.
A Reaper catches Gnome and kills him, causing
other members of the group to panic.
The Architect tries to protect the group,
but Yan pulls him and orders him to return
to the bus.
Phantom, realizing that his body is already
falling apart, tries to call the attention
of a Reaper using the whistle, but the creature
ignores him.
The squad gets cornered by Reapers as they
approach the bus, so they run in another direction.
As the Architect runs after the group, he
starts waking up.
As he opens his eyes, he sees a picture of
an Egyptian temple on the wall.
He starts recalling the events that led to
his coma and found himself going through his
architectural designs as Fly drives him to
his client.
Fly warns him that the client is a notorious
sect that might use his designs malevolently.
When they reach the gates of the sect's headquarters,
a man, who introduces himself as a disciple,
approaches them and tells them that only the
Architect can go inside.
Fly hands him a taser as he gets out of the
car.
Inside the building, the disciple tells him
that their headquarters was once a hospital
before their organization took over.
They soon walk into a hall where the Architect
meets the sect's Teacher, Yan.
After discussing his designs, Yan leads him
to a ward the organization keeps coma patients.
The Teacher hints that he wants to give his
followers a new life by putting them in a
coma.
When he asks the Architect to be a part of
the experiment, he refuses and tries to leave.
Two doctors try to subdue him, so he uses
the taser on one of them and runs back to
the car.
As Fly drives away from the headquarters,
they collide with a truck.
The Architect, now fully awake, finds himself
and Fly in the ward with other patients.
Yan explains that Fly was put in a coma just
a couple of hours before the Architect, but
months had already passed when he got there.
He reveals that the religious sect was only
a cover to help them raise funds for their
operation.
He assures the Architect that his plan to
build a new city was real.
Yan walks over to Phantom's bed and discloses
that he had fully recovered his memory, but
he decided to stay in a coma until a Reaper
caught him.
The Architect begs Yan to let him and the
others go, but the leader insists on putting
him back in a coma to finish building the
island.
The Teacher swears that he won't keep anyone
against their will if the Architect returns.
As soon as the Architect agrees to Yan's terms,
the doctors inject the man with a drug to
stimulate his brain to recover his memory
faster once he's comatose.
Yan promised to show the back door to the
Architect if he does everything he asks.
After waking up in his apartment, the Architect
uses his abilities to get back to the field
and help the squad.
As they walk on their way to the site, the
Architect tells them about their comatose
state.
But before the Architect could reveal any
more of Yan's plans, the leader arrives and
tells him to start building the island.
Once the Architect finished, Yan starts revealing
what each squad member was doing before they
went into a coma.
Spirit had been experiencing hallucinations
and convulsions almost daily, so she has been
sent to an asylum.
Tank had lost his family in an accident, and
he almost got locked up for trying to shoot
his neighbors.
The Astronomer is an autistic who cannot leave
his house and has to be cared for by his aging
parents.
Yan points out that the Architect had problems
of his own.
He hasn't made any money from his beautiful
designs because potential clients think that
they're way ahead of their time.
He reveals that Fly intends to leave him because
he was becoming moody due to the lack of interest
in his creations.
Spirit and the Astronomer express their desire
to stay in a coma, but Yan says he can't let
them be a part of it because they might reveal
what they know to his other followers.
They promise to keep the secret, but the leader
refuses to take the risk.
Tank starts to disintegrate as a disciple
turns off his life support.
The leader advises them to bid each other
goodbye before the disciple unplugs another
machine.
When he goes outside, the Architect sees the
Egyptian temple depicted in the picture he
saw in front of his bed.
Waiting for them outside the temple is Yan,
who stops them from escaping.
The Architect uses his ability to drop a large
slab on Yan, but he breaks it before it hits
him.
Fly's body starts to wither away while the
leader strangles the Architect.
As Yan uses his ability to disintegrate the
Architect, a Reaper stabs the leader in the
back.
After Yan disappeared, the Reaper starts morphing
its shape to resemble Phantom and refrains
from harming either the Architect or Fly.
When he goes outside, the Architect sees the
Egyptian temple depicted in the picture he
saw in front of his bed.
Waiting for them outside the temple is Yan,
who stops them from escaping.
The Architect uses his ability to drop a large
slab on Yan, but he breaks it before it lands
on him.
Fly's body starts to wither away while the
leader strangles the Architect.
As Yan uses his ability to disintegrate the
Architect, a Reaper stabs the leader in the
back.
The Reaper morphs its shape to resemble Phantom
and refrains from harming either the Architect
or Fly.
The Architect walks towards the temple and
wakes up, leaving Fly behind as she starts
to disintegrate.
After becoming fully conscious, the Architect
goes straight to Fly's bed and wakes her up.
As they get up to leave the hospital, the
disciples arrive in the ward, only to find
that the Teacher has passed away.
Back at home, the Architect has started to
design ordinary buildings to attract potential
clients.
Although no one has contacted him about his
proposals, he assures Fly that there's no
need to worry about money because he has another
job.
The couple soon learns that there will be
no charges against Yan's sect due to a lack
of evidence against them.
Furthermore, the religious organization is
still growing steadily despite the allegations
against its leaders.
The Architect says he's not worried about
the sect anymore.
As they prepare to go out, Fly tells him there
was a letter addressed to him.
The Architect tells her that he already saw
it and it only contained documents from an
old project.
He sees a leaflet from Yan's organization
and locks it away in his drawer.